
<!-- README.md is generated from README.Rmd. Please edit README.Rmd (this file) -->

# bcgovr <img src="tools/readme/logo.png" align="right" />

[![img](https://img.shields.io/badge/Lifecycle-Stable-97ca00)](https://github.com/bcgov/repomountie/blob/8b2ebdc9756819625a56f7a426c29f99b777ab1d/doc/state-badges.md)
[![Travis-CI Build
Status](https://travis-ci.org/bcgov/bcgovr.svg?branch=master)](https://travis-ci.org/bcgov/bcgovr)
[![License](https://img.shields.io/badge/License-Apache%202.0-blue.svg)](https://opensource.org/licenses/Apache-2.0)

## Overview

An [R](http://r-project.org) package to automate set up and sharing of R
projects in [bcgov GitHub](https://github.com/bcgov) following [bcgov
guidelines](https://github.com/bcgov/BC-Policy-Framework-For-GitHub).

All B.C. Government employees are responsible for determining whether
bcgov R source code can be shared on [bcgov
GitHub](https://github.com/bcgov) and for following the
[BC-Policy-Framework-For-GitHub](https://github.com/bcgov/BC-Policy-Framework-For-GitHub).

You will need to ensure that [Git](https://git-scm.com/) is installed on
your computer. To add your project to bcgov GitHub users need to have a
GitHub account *and* be a [member of the bcgov GitHub
organisation](https://github.com/bcgov/BC-Policy-Framework-For-GitHub/blob/master/BC-Gov-Org-HowTo/Cheatsheet.md).

## Features

### Functions

`create_bcgov_project()` & `create_bcgov_package()` Create a newâ€”or
populate an existingâ€”R project or R package with folders & files that
encourage best practice in scientific computing *and* with files that
ensure the project meets [bcgov GitHub
requirements](https://github.com/bcgov/BC-Policy-Framework-For-GitHub/blob/master/BC-Gov-Org-HowTo/Cheatsheet.md).

`use_bcgov_git()` Initialise [Git](https://git-scm.com/) version control
for an R project *and* add files that ensure the project meets [bcgov
GitHub
requirements](https://github.com/bcgov/BC-Policy-Framework-For-GitHub/blob/master/BC-Gov-Org-HowTo/Cheatsheet.md).

`use_bcgov_github()` Open a [bcgov GitHub
repository](https://github.com/bcgov) and synchronise with an existing
local R project *and* add files that ensure the project meets [bcgov
GitHub
requirements](https://github.com/bcgov/BC-Policy-Framework-For-GitHub/blob/master/BC-Gov-Org-HowTo/Cheatsheet.md).
`use_bcgov_github()` requires that your project already be a Git
repository. Use `use_bcgov_git()` to initialise a Git repository.

`create_from_bcgov_github()` Clone a [bcgov GitHub
repository](https://github.com/bcgov) *and* add files that ensure the
project meets [bcgov GitHub
requirements](https://github.com/bcgov/BC-Policy-Framework-For-GitHub/blob/master/BC-Gov-Org-HowTo/Cheatsheet.md).

`use_bcgov_req()` Add files to a new or existing R project to meet
[bcgov GitHub
requirements](https://github.com/bcgov/BC-Policy-Framework-For-GitHub/blob/master/BC-Gov-Org-HowTo/Cheatsheet.md).
You can also add the [bcgov required
files](https://github.com/bcgov/BC-Policy-Framework-For-GitHub/blob/master/BC-Gov-Org-HowTo/Cheatsheet.md)
individually using `use_bcgov_contributing()`, `use_bcgov_licence()`,
`use_bcgov_readme()`, `use_bcgov_readme_rmd()`,
`use_bcgov_code_of_conduct()`.

### RStudio bcgovr Project & Package Templates

The `create_bcgov_project()` or `create_bcgov_package()` and
`use_bcgov_git` functions can be used simultaneously through the *bcgovr
Project & Package* templates in the [RStudio](https://www.rstudio.com/)
New Project dialogue box. The dialogue box allows a user to create a new
R project or package with the option to select and individualise the
required bcgov GitHub files and initialise Git version control.

### RStudio Addins

The `bcgovr` package installs a set of [RStudio
Addins](https://rstudio.github.io/rstudioaddins/):

1.  Insert the [boiler-plate Apache 2.0 license
    header](https://github.com/bcgov/BC-Policy-Framework-For-GitHub/blob/master/BC-Open-Source-Development-Employee-Guide/Licenses.md)
    into the comments header of a source file (uses
    `insert_bcgov_apache_header()`).
2.  Insert the [boiler-plate Creative Commons Attribution 4.0
    International License
    header](https://github.com/bcgov/BC-Policy-Framework-For-GitHub/blob/master/BC-Open-Source-Development-Employee-Guide/Licenses.md)
    into the comments header of a source file (uses
    `insert_bcgov_cc_header()`).
3.  Insert a [bcgov lifecycle
    badge](https://github.com/bcgov/repomountie/blob/8b2ebdc9756819625a56f7a426c29f99b777ab1d/doc/state-badges.md)
    into an .Rmd or .md file to indicate the current state of the
    project (uses `insert_bcgov_lifecycle_badge()`).

## Installation

You can install `bcgovr` directly from this GitHub repository. To do so,
you will need the [remotes](https://cran.r-project.org/package=remotes)
package:

    install.packages("remotes")

Next, install and load the `bcgovr` package using
`remotes::install_github()`:

    remotes::install_github("bcgov/bcgovr")
    library(bcgovr)

ðŸŽ‰ The authors of `bcgovr` acknowledge and thank the authors of the
[`usethis`](https://cran.r-project.org/package=usethis) R
packageâ€”`bcgovr` uses `usethis` *a lot*. And by a lot, we mean *every*
`bcgovr` function uses `usethis` under the hood ðŸš˜.

## Usage

### I WANT TOâ€¦

<details>
<summary>
<strong>Create a new bcgov R project or package with a â€˜ready-to-goâ€™
folder & file structure</strong>
</summary>

<br />

Create and openâ€”or populateâ€”a local R project using
`bcgovr::create_bcgov_project()`. Be sure to either specify your local
directory using the `path` argument, or `setwd("C:/my-new-project")`
before running `create_bcgov_project()`. The template `bcgovr` folders
and files and required bcgov GitHub files will be created in the new
directory. For using different project templates, see the
[Options](#options) section below. Type `?create_bcgov_project` in the R
console for help.

    create_bcgov_project(path = "C:/my-new-project", coc_email = "my.email@gov.bc.ca") 

    C:/my-new-project
    â”œâ”€â”€ 01_load.R
    â”œâ”€â”€ 02_clean.R
    â”œâ”€â”€ 03_analysis.R
    â”œâ”€â”€ 04_output.R
    â”œâ”€â”€ CODE_OF_CONDUCT.md
    â”œâ”€â”€ CONTRIBUTING.md
    â”œâ”€â”€ LICENSE
    â”œâ”€â”€ R
    â”œâ”€â”€ README.Rmd
    â”œâ”€â”€ data
    â”œâ”€â”€ my-new-project.Rproj
    â”œâ”€â”€ out
    â””â”€â”€ run_all.R

The `create_bcgov_package()` function is used the same way as
`create_bcgov_project()` but will create all the folders & files to get
started on creating an R package. Type `?create_bcgov_package` in the R
console for help. The [R packages](http://r-pkgs.had.co.nz/) book by
Hadley Wickham is a very useful resource if you are looking to create R
packages.

    create_bcgov_package(path = "C:/mynewrpackage", coc_email = "my.email@gov.bc.ca") 

    C:/mynewrpackage
    â”œâ”€â”€ CODE_OF_CONDUCT.md
    â”œâ”€â”€ CONTRIBUTING.md
    â”œâ”€â”€ DESCRIPTION
    â”œâ”€â”€ LICENSE
    â”œâ”€â”€ NAMESPACE
    â”œâ”€â”€ NEWS.md
    â”œâ”€â”€ R
    â”œâ”€â”€ README.Rmd
    â”œâ”€â”€ man
    â”œâ”€â”€ mynewrpackage.Rproj
    â””â”€â”€ vignettes
        â””â”€â”€ mynewrpackage.Rmd

Users can also use the *bcgovr Project & Package* templates in the
[RStudio](https://www.rstudio.com/) New Project dialogue box to create a
new R project or package. The dialogue box provides the option to select
and individualise the required bcgov GitHub files and initialise Git
version control.

<img src="tools/readme/proj_template1.png" width="30%" /><img src="tools/readme/proj_template2.png" width="30%" /><img src="tools/readme/proj_template3.png" width="30%" />

<br />

</details>
<details>
<summary>
<strong>Initialise Git version control for my R project (<i>without</i>
GitHub)</strong>
</summary>

<br />

Put your local R project under version control by initialising a
[Git](https://git-scm.com/) repository using `use_bcgov_git()`â€”this
automatically completes staging and committing of the initial folders &
files inside the project. The `use_bcgov_git()` function also ensures
the project has the required bcgov GitHub files. Type `?use_bcgov_git`
in the R console for help.

    use_bcgov_git(coc_email = "my.email@gov.bc.ca") 

<br />

</details>
<details>
<summary>
<strong>Open a bcgov GitHub repository and synchronise with my R
project</strong>
</summary>

<br />

Share your R project on [bcgov GitHub](https://github.com/bcgov) using
`use_bcgov_github()`. This requires that your project already be a Git
repositoryâ€”use `use_bcgov_git()` to initialise a Git repository if
necessary. The `use_bcgov_github()` function creates a repository on
bcgov GitHub and adds and synchronises your local project with the newly
created bcgov GitHub origin. The `use_bcgov_github()` function also
ensures the project has the required bcgov GitHub files. Type
`?use_bcgov_github` in the R console for help.

    use_bcgov_github(organisation = "bcgov", coc_email = "my.email@gov.bc.ca") 

<br />

</details>
<details>
<summary>
<strong>Clone and contribute to an existing bcgov GitHub
repository</strong>
</summary>

<br />

Create a new local Git repository with a project or repository cloned
from bcgov GitHub using `create_from_bcgov_github()`. The
`create_from_bcgov_github()` function also ensures the project has the
required bcgov GitHub files. Type `?create_from_bcgov_github` in the R
console for help.

    create_from_bcgov_github(repo = "bcgov/bcgovr", destdir = "C:/my_directory") 

<br />

</details>
<details>
<summary>
<strong>Add all or some of the required bcgov GitHub files to my R
project</strong>
</summary>

<br />

Add the [required bcgov
GitHub](https://github.com/bcgov/BC-Policy-Framework-For-GitHub/blob/master/BC-Gov-Org-HowTo/Cheatsheet.md)
filesâ€”a LICENCE, a README, a CODE OF CONDUCT and a CONTRIBUTING fileâ€”to
any new or existing bcgov R project or package using `use_bcgov_req()`.
Type `?use_bcgov_req` in the R console for help.

You can use the `licence`, `coc_email` & `rmarkdown` arguments to change
the default Apache 2.0 License, add your contact details to the Code of
Conduct, or decline a README.Rmd fileâ€”maybe you only want a README.md
for the project?

    use_bcgov_req(licence = "cc-by", rmarkdown = FALSE, coc_email = "my.email@gov.bc.ca")

You can also add the individual required files as needed using:

    use_bcgov_licence()
    use_bcgov_readme()
    use_bcgov_contributing()
    use_bcgov_code_of_conduct(coc_email = "my.email@gov.bc.ca")

<br />

</details>
<details>
<summary>
<strong>Insert a licence header into my source file</strong>
</summary>

<br />

Need to add that Apache 2.0 or Creative Commons License header to a
source file? Just click-click:

![](tools/readme/bcgovr_addin_licence.gif)

You can also use `insert_bcgov_apache_header()` or
`insert_bcgov_cc_header()`.

<br />

</details>
<details>
<summary>
<strong>Insert a bcgov lifecycle badge into my README file</strong>
</summary>

<br />

Want to add a lifecycle badge to your README file to indicate the
current state of the project? Just click-click-click-click:

![](tools/readme/bcgovr_addin_badge.gif)

You can also use `insert_bcgov_lifecycle_badge("experimental")`. Type
`?insert_bcgov_lifecycle_badge` in the R console for the list of badge
options and other help.

</details>

### Options

There are several options you can specify in your `.Rprofile` file to
customise the default behaviour when using the `create_bcgov_` and
`use_bcgov_` functions in `bcgovr`.

-   `bcgovr.coc.email`: Code of Conduct contact email address

-   `bcgovr.dir.struct`: Alternative project directory structure for
    `create_bcgov_project()`. This should be specified as a character
    vector of directory (i.e.Â folders) and file paths, relative to the
    root of the project. Directories should be identified by having a
    trailing forward-slash (e.g., `"dir/"`).

    The default is:
    `c("R/", "data/", "out/", "01_load.R", "02_clean.R", "03_analysis.R", "04_output.R", "internal.R", "run_all.R")`.

To make use of these options, there should be a section in your
`.Rprofile` file that looks something like this:

    if (interactive()) {
        options("bcgovr.coc.email" = "my.email@gov.bc.ca")
        options("bcgovr.dir.struct" = c("doc/", "data/", "results/", "src/01_load.R", "src/02_clean.R",
                "src/03_analysis.R", "src/04_output.R", "src/run_all.R"))
    }

The easiest way to edit your `.Rprofile` is to run
`usethis::edit_r_profile()`. It will open up the file in RStudio for
editing. Then save the file, restart R, and your settings will be saved.

## Project Status

This package is relatively stable and available for general use.

## Getting Help or Reporting an Issue

To report bugs/issues/feature requests, please file an
[Issue](https://github.com/bcgov/bcgovr/issues/).

## How to Contribute

If you would like to contribute to the package, please see our
[CONTRIBUTING](CONTRIBUTING.md) guidelines.

Please note that this project is released with a [Contributor Code of
Conduct](CODE_OF_CONDUCT.md). By participating in this project you agree
to abide by its terms.

## License

    Copyright 2017 Province of British Columbia

    Licensed under the Apache License, Version 2.0 (the "License");
    you may not use this file except in compliance with the License.
    You may obtain a copy of the License at 

       http://www.apache.org/licenses/LICENSE-2.0

    Unless required by applicable law or agreed to in writing, software
    distributed under the License is distributed on an "AS IS" BASIS,
    WITHOUT WARRANTIES OR CONDITIONS OF ANY KIND, either express or implied.
    See the License for the specific language governing permissions and
    limitations under the License.

This repository is maintained by [Environmental Reporting
BC](http://www2.gov.bc.ca/gov/content?id=FF80E0B985F245CEA62808414D78C41B).
Click [here](https://github.com/bcgov/EnvReportBC-RepoList) for a
complete list of our repositories on GitHub.
